i
                       F I N A N C I A L         T R E N D      A N A L Y S I S


                        Identity-Related Suspicious Activity:
                               2021 Threats and Trends

   This Financial Trend Analysis (FTA) focuses on pattern and trend information identified in Bank
   Secrecy Act (BSA) data linked to identity-related suspicious activity reported in 2021. FinCEN is
   issuing this report pursuant to Section 6206 of the Anti-Money Laundering Act of 2020 that requires
   periodic publication of BSA-derived threat pattern and trend information.1 FinCEN has determined
   that identity-related suspicious activity is a cybercrime concern, has highlighted the importance of
   customer identity in achieving its mission, and has included cybercrime and fraud as government-
   wide priorities in the June 2021 Anti-Money Laundering/ Combatting the Financing of Terrorism
   (AML/CFT) policy. This FTA intends to use BSA data to quantify and feed back to industry how bad
   actors exploit identity-related processes during account opening, access, and transactions (“identity
   processes”) to perpetrate crimes. The information is relevant to the public, particularly financial
   institutions and entities involved in identity processes and mitigating crimes. This report highlights
   the value of BSA information filed by regulated financial institutions.

Executive Summary: This FTA provides threat pattern and trend information on identity-related
suspicious activity, or suspicious activity tied to the exploitation of one or more steps of identity
processes, including those within financial institutions, based on Bank Secrecy Act (BSA) data filed
with FinCEN from January to December 2021 (the Review Period).2 3 During the Review Period,
approximately 1.6 million, or 42% of around 3.8 million total BSA reports, equivalent to $212 billion
in suspicious activity, related to identity.

Note Regarding Terminology in this Report: This FTA intends to quantify how bad actors
exploit identity processes to perpetrate crimes. These exploitations include “impersonation”,
“circumvention”, and “compromise.” These occur, respectively, in three identity processes:
validation, verification, and authentication. FinCEN’s identity process definitions closely
align with the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) definitions, including for
“verification” that distinguishes between verification and validation. (See Scope and Methodology
box for further information.) FinCEN recognizes that this FTA’s use of the term “verification” may
differ from how the term is used under its Customer Identification Program (CIP) and Customer
Due Diligence (CDD) Rules, among other BSA obligations. This FTA does not intend to, nor
does it impose, any additional regulatory obligations or supervisory expectations, or alter any
existing regulatory obligations or expectations on financial institutions, including those with
CIP and CDD obligations.

Overview of Key Findings: During the Review Period, perpetrators of identity-related suspicious
activity (also referred herein to as “attackers”) have used at least 14 typologies to exploit the three
identity processes (see figure 1). According to FinCEN’s analysis:

• Most attackers have impersonated others to defraud victims: Sixty-nine percent of identity-
  related BSA reports (approximately 1.7 million filings) indicate that attackers impersonated
  others as part of efforts to defraud victims. Eighteen percent of identity-related BSA reports

                                                     1
                       F I N A N C I A L        T R E N D      A N A L Y S I S

   (approximately 446,000 filings) describe attackers using compromised credentials to gain
   unauthorized access to legitimate customers’ accounts. Thirteen percent of identity-related
   BSA reports (approximately 323,000 filings) report attackers exploiting insufficient verification
   processes to advance their schemes (see figure 3).

• Depository institutions have filed the greatest number of identity-related BSA reports: 54% of identity-
  related BSA reports (approximately 1.3 million filings) were filed by depository institutions,
  reporting $201 billion in suspicious activity. Money services businesses (MSBs) are the next
  largest category of filer, filing 21% of identity-related BSA reports (see figure 4).4

• Fraud was the most reported typology: Of 14 commonly reported typologies, the most reported
  were general fraud (approximately 1.2 million), false records (approximately 423,000), identity
  theft (approximately 222,000), third-party money laundering (approximately 154,000), and
  circumventing standards (approximately 110,000) (see figure 2 and appendix 1).

• The impact of identity-related exploitations by BSA report volumes and cited U.S. dollar values are
  significant and vary by type: Attackers most frequently use impersonation tactics, followed
  by compromise during authentication, and finally, circumventing verification to evade
  detection. In contrast, compromise has a disproportionally large monetary impact compared to
  impersonation and circumvention.

Throughout this analytic effort, FinCEN has leveraged its interagency and public-private
partnerships to share information and explore best practices for mitigating the threats financial
institutions face from gaps and vulnerabilities in identity processes, particularly with respect to
fraud and cybercrime.



   Scope and Methodology: FinCEN examined approximately 3.8 million BSA reports filed
   during the Review Period, identifying $566 billion in suspicious activity, to detect identity-
   related suspicious activity patterns and trends.5 FinCEN has used a combination of automated
   and manual review of suspicious activity checkboxes and thousands of free-text entries,
   including addressing errors, to find “identity-related suspicious activity” — BSA reports that
   denote suspicious activity tied to the exploitation of one or more steps of “identity processes,”
   as described below, including those steps that occur within financial institutions.6

   Based on this review, FinCEN has clustered the suspicious activities in identity-related BSA
   reports into 14 core typologies and confirmed them through a manual review of narratives.
   Identity processes generally include three steps: validation, verification, and authentication.
   For the purposes of this report, FinCEN based these identity processes on the NIST Special
   Publication 800-63A Digital Identity Guidelines.7 FinCEN has generalized these steps broadly
   to adequately capture a wide range of unforeseen use cases, implementations, and relationships
   among verifiers, authorizers, and those being verified. Additionally, the identity processes
   steps may occur both within and outside financial institutions and their customers, including
   customers’ customers, and their counterparties when operationally accessing authorized


                                                    2
                    F I N A N C I A L       T R E N D      A N A L Y S I S



privileges and services. At financial institutions, identity processes are generally conducted
during customer account creation, accessing of customer accounts, and when making and
processing transactions.

For the purposes of this report, the “Validation” step combines NIST’s “Resolution” of an
individual as unique, and related processes such as presentation and validation of their
attributes, evidence, credentials, etc. The “Verification” step includes the processes used to tie
validated attributes and evidence to the correct individual, matching, and related activities.
The “Authentication” step includes the authentication process, factors, authorization, access
to privileges and services, and similar activities performed by a credential service provider or
authorizer such as a financial institution.

Based on these steps, FinCEN has identified three common exploitations of the identity
processes (together, identity-related exploitations). Attackers: (i) impersonate others to
evade validation; (ii) circumvent or exploit insufficient verification processes; and (iii) use
compromised credentials to gain unauthorized access during authentication. FinCEN then
mapped the 14 typologies to the relevant identity-related exploitations based on an analysis
of the underlying activity. For the purposes of this analysis, FinCEN has only used the
primary identity-related exploitation to generate results. Although FinCEN has observed some
overlap of activities in the data, a primary mode of exploit could be identified for each BSA
filing. FinCEN has observed that a successful exploitation of any step of the identity processes
weakens the overall integrity of the process and the identity, allowing attackers to gain
additional access and to advance schemes.

For the purposes of this analysis, FinCEN divided BSA data gathered into two datasets. The
first to calculate the number of BSA reports for each typology, and the second to calculate the
identity-related volume of filings and dollar-amounts of suspicious activity, respectively: the
aggregate and discrete datasets.

Aggregate Data on Typologies: The aggregate dataset consists of BSA reports focused on 14
core typologies, resulting in a dataset of approximately 2.4 million identity-related BSA reports,
reporting $351 billion in suspicious activity, filed during the Review Period. This dataset
includes duplicate filings as typologies are not mutually exclusive, and BSA reports may be
included in several typologies based on checkboxes, free-text entries, and narrative information
provided by filers.8 9 10 This dataset is used throughout the report for statistics tied to criminal
typologies, allowing them to be compared to each other by relative impact as measured by the
aggregate suspicious activity tied to each typology. This aggregate data was then sorted by the
primary identity-related exploitation and filing institution to generate results. All figures in this
report reflect comparative analysis based on this aggregate data.

Discrete Volume of BSA Reports and Value of Suspicious Activity: The discrete dataset
consists of BSA reports in the aggregate dataset where redundant duplicate data is removed
(i.e., de-duplicated), resulting in a dataset of approximately 1.6 million identity-related BSA


                                                3
                       F I N A N C I A L       T R E N D     A N A L Y S I S



   reports, reporting $212 billion in suspicious activity, filed during the Review Period. The
   identity-related BSA reports represent 42% of a total 3.8 million reports filed in 2021. This
   data set is only used to identify the overall discrete number of reports tied to identity-related
   suspicious activity volumes and suspicious activity U.S. dollar amounts.

   To account for typos and errors, and to reduce outliers, FinCEN has excluded suspicious
   amounts over $100 million, which constituted less than 1% of the data. Amounts associated with
   these BSA reports may include attempted transactions and payments that were unpaid. This
   figure also includes BSA reports that describe continuing suspicious activity or amend earlier
   reporting, as well as reports that cover expanded networks involved in potential illicit activity.
   These suspicious amounts may include duplicates, counting of both inbound and outbound
   transactions, fund transfers between accounts, typos, and errors as submitted by filers. An
   assessment of the modes of attestation, authentication channels, types of presenters, credentials,
   and financial instruments were not included and are beyond the scope of this report.



Identity Processes in Financial Institutions
FinCEN regulates a broad range of financial institution types with varying regulatory
requirements. In this report, FinCEN has attempted to create a systemic framework to feed back
to industry their financial intelligence in an aggregated manner to help mitigate identity-related
suspicious activity or identity processes exploitation. At account opening, an identity process is
necessary to verify customer identity, establish that a customer is who they claim to be, and enable
the financial institution to form a reasonable belief that it knows the true identity of each customer,
based on the bank’s assessment of the relevant risks and information provided by the customer.
Financial institutions may also rely on identity processes as part of authorizing account access by
existing customers and when those customers are making transactions with counterparties.

For the purposes of this report, FinCEN has used identity processes drawn generally from
definitions detailed in NIST’s Digital Identity Guidelines (Special Publication 800-63-4 ipd) when
relevant to financial institutions’ BSA activities. NIST, a congressionally mandated agency of the
U.S. Department of Commerce, promotes American innovation and competitiveness by advancing
measurement science, standards, and technology. FinCEN recognizes that NIST’s guidelines do not
address all financial institutions’ BSA-related activities, including transaction monitoring among
others. Additionally, private sector compliance with NIST standards is voluntary.

NIST’s identity processes generally include three steps: validation, verification, and
authentication.11 These steps involve the following:

• Validation: The validation stage begins when a customer presents identity attributes and
  supporting evidence (e.g., birth certificate, passport, driver’s license, etc.) — in person or
  remotely — for review by a financial institution.12 The financial institution then attempts to


                                                   4
                       F I N A N C I A L        T R E N D     A N A L Y S I S

   determine: (i) whether the presented identity “exists” (i.e., whether it is tied to a real-life
   identity); (ii) whether the presented identity is “unique” (i.e., whether it is claimed by only one
   entity); and (iii) whether the presented information and evidence are authentic and accurate.
   The financial institution makes these determinations by comparing the presented information
   and evidence against authoritative government data, such as public records and Social Security
   Administration data, or third-party data sources, such as credit reporting agency, utility, and
   employer data (i.e., independent and reliable data sources).13 14

• Verification: In the verification stage, the financial institution confirms that the previously
  validated identity evidence belongs to the customer. The financial institution may, for example,
  match the customer’s appearance in person or virtually via photo or video to a photo on the
  customer’s driver’s license, passport, or other photo identification. Verification tools and
  techniques can rely on humans or be entirely automated. These tools may also use biometrics like
  facial recognition and liveness detection or verify documents and attributes to determine a match.
  A variety of other technical and risk data from third parties may also be used in this process.

• Authentication: In the authentication stage, a financial institution attempts to assess whether
  the customer is who they purport to be based on the customer’s possession and control of valid
  authenticators.15 Financial institutions may engage in other activities around transactions
  as well, such as verifying counterparties and other transaction monitoring. Authentication
  provides risk-based assurance that the customer is the same customer whose identity was
  validated and verified during previous steps of the identity process.16 The authentication
  process can occur in person or remotely, be manual or digital, rely on humans or machines,
  and is considered more robust when it relies on multiple authentication factors (i.e., multi-
  factor authentication). Common authentication factors include: “Ownership” of something
  the customer has (e.g., a badge, phone, or cryptographic key); “Knowledge” of something
  the customer knows (e.g., a password, passphrase, or PIN); and “Inherent” or something the
  customer is (e.g., a fingerprint or other biometric data).17

The proliferation of data breaches compromising personally identifiable information (PII), synthetic
identities, and the rapid evolution of Artificial Intelligence (AI) may further enable bad actors to
exploit identity processes more easily, quickly, and inexpensively to drive money laundering,
fraud, and other cybercrime.

FinCEN Identified Three Identity-Related Exploitations
FinCEN has identified three identity-related exploitations that align to the three steps of the
identity process. According to identity-related BSA reports, attackers: (i) impersonate others
to evade validation; (ii) circumvent or exploit insufficient verification processes; and (iii) use
compromised credentials to gain unauthorized access during authentication.

A successful exploitation of any step of the identity process weakens the overall integrity of the
process. Attackers leverage data breaches that expose identity information and credentials, as well as
technologies, such as automated password cracking tools. Additionally, the significant shift toward


                                                    5
                       F I N A N C I A L        T R E N D     A N A L Y S I S

remote financial services may present additional openings for attackers to exploit breakdowns in
identity processes.18 Attackers target vulnerabilities in virtual and physical environments to steal
sensitive information, compromise financial activity, and disrupt business operations.

                           Figure 1. Identity-Related Exploitations and
                    Typologies Attackers use to Undermine Identity Processes19




For example, in the first identity step, validation, perpetrators of “False Records” exploit the
validation step by altering, counterfeiting, or forging documentation, records, or forms of payment.
Similarly, perpetrators of “Synthetic Identity” use a combination of real and fake PII to fabricate a
person or entity to pass validation processes. During the second identity step, verification, bad actors
attempt to circumvent verification by using the legitimate credentials of third-parties as straw men
in “Third Party Money Laundering” or by using third-parties with lax standards (“Circumventing
Standards”) or refusing to provide requested information (“Refuse to Cooperate”). During the
authentication step, bad actors engage in an “Account Takeover” using stolen authenticators and
credentials to gain full access to victim financial accounts. Bad actors who compromise the full PII
details of victims (“Identity Theft”) create new account relationships such as loans or new accounts
to defraud victims. Finally, trusted providers of goods and services misuse their authorized access
(“Abuse of Access”) to data, information, or systems for financial gain (e.g., insider abuse, corruption,
and embezzlement) thereby compromising the authentication step.

Attackers Impersonate Others to Defraud Victims
Attackers impersonate others by providing false identifying information, claiming to be other entities,
and otherwise misrepresenting identity information to evade validation. Financial institutions
and other victims appeared to have more difficulty identifying impersonation when they lack an




                                                    6
                      F I N A N C I A L       T R E N D     A N A L Y S I S

authoritative source to compare identity documentation and evidence. Examples of authoritative
sources include records and credentials issued by government sources. Successful impersonation
starts in the validation stage and continues throughout identity processes. For example:

• Attackers provide false or inconsistent PII, employment, and payment records to open accounts,
  receive COVID-19 and other government benefits, and apply for lines of credit, according to
  identity-related BSA reports.

• Attackers deposit counterfeit checks with forged signatures and other edited payment information.20

• As part of various scams, attackers claim to be businesses, charities, financial institutions,
  government entities, and other individuals to manipulate victims into providing funds, PII, or
  account or system access. Examples of these scams include romance scams,21 person-in-need
  scams,22 tech and customer support scams,23 employment scams,24 and financial institution and
  government imposter scams.25

Attackers Exploit and Circumvent Verification
Attackers circumvent verification to obfuscate the sources and movement of funds. Attackers
use third-party transactors to mask the true transactors or refuse to cooperate and provide photo
identification or supporting identity documentation. These suspicious activities limit financial
institutions’ ability to fully identify their customers, their customers’ transactions, and their
customers’ counterparties. For example:

• Attackers build upon successfully passing the validation stage by presenting fake or stolen
  photo identification usually during online interactions. This overcomes verification, which
  may be weak or insufficient, allowing attackers to successfully open accounts and lines of credit
  before scam victims, other intermediaries, and financial institutions performing additional due
  diligence discover the fraud.

• To obfuscate the true party or parties behind transactions, attackers use money mules, straw
  buyers, and other third-party transactors, or act as unlicensed or unregistered MSBs to move
  funds on behalf of others.26 27

• Attackers also fail to provide additional photo identification, proof of funds, and other
  supporting identity documentation when requested by financial institutions. This inhibits
  financial institutions’ ability to perform additional verification on customers, their customers’
  transactions, and their customers’ counterparties.

Attackers Compromise Authentication and Misuse Credentials to
Gain Access
Attackers compromise victims’ credentials to gain unauthorized access to data, funds, information,
locations, services, and systems. Attackers target victims, their credentials, and their funds
directly through account takeovers, business email compromises, brute-force login attacks, data


                                                  7
                      F I N A N C I A L       T R E N D     A N A L Y S I S

breaches, identity theft, and other cyber events such as phishing, ransomware, and other endpoint
compromises.28 29 30 31 Attackers then generate illicit proceeds from the sale of stolen credentials
or use stolen credentials to open accounts, apply for lines of credit, and conduct transactions.
Attackers also use the compromised credentials to access accounts, information, and systems for
their own financial gain. For example:

• Attackers use social engineering, computer intrusions, and compromised email accounts
  to manipulate victims into thinking a trusted person or entity was directing them to make
  payments. This misleads financial institutions and their customers into conducting fund
  transfers to attacker-controlled accounts or allows attackers to directly gain unauthorized access
  to victims’ accounts and execute unauthorized peer-to-peer or wire transfers.32 33 34

• Additionally, attackers misuse their position as authenticators or their insider access to identity
  processes for their own financial gain. For example, compromised powers of attorney exploit
  elders and move funds from victims’ accounts to their own; corrupt individuals abuse their
  authority or position for personal gain; and bad actors access confidential, proprietary, or
  non-public information and use that information to engage in insider trading and market
  manipulation.

Fraud Most Frequently Reported Illicit Finance Typology
As previously noted, FinCEN has identified over 14 typologies commonly reported in identity-
related BSA reports. The most frequently reported typologies are fraud, false records, identity
theft, third-party money laundering, and circumventing standards (see figure 2). The top five
typologies account for 88% of the identity-related BSA reports and 74% of the total identity-
related suspicious activity amount during the Review Period.35 Some of these typologies may
be considered types of fraud but are separated for the purposes of this report to account for
differences in how fraud perpetration methods exploit identity processes.

                 Figure 2. Top Typologies Reported, January to December 202136

               Typology                   Number of BSA reports         Total Suspicious Amounts
General Fraud                                 1.2 million                      $149 billion
False Records                                  ~423,000                         $45 billion
Identity Theft                                 ~222,000                         $36 billion
Third-Party Money Laundering                   ~154,000                         $18 billion
Circumventing Standards                        ~110,000                         $12 billion
Total                                         2.1 million                      $260 billion

General Fraud
General fraud is by far the most frequently reported suspicious activity by both number of BSA
reports and total suspicious activity amount. This is consistent with the National Money Laundering
Risk Assessment that found that fraud continues to be the largest driver of money laundering activity


                                                  8
                      F I N A N C I A L       T R E N D     A N A L Y S I S

in terms of scope and magnitude of illicit proceeds.37 Fraud is also considered one of the eight
national AML/CFT priorities.38 Filers report fraud in 1.2 million identity-related BSA reports with
$149 billion in suspicious activity. Filers report many types of fraud, including bust out schemes
(where attackers open credit card accounts with false information and then max out the cards), check
fraud, credit and debit card fraud, and many types of COVID-19 fraud.39 Attackers also commit
several types of check fraud. They deposit counterfeit checks with edited payment information and
forged signatures, and then exploit check settlement times between financial institutions by accessing
funds before financial institutions process the checks and discover insufficient funds (i.e., check
kiting). Attackers also obtain compromised credit and debit card numbers and conduct unauthorized
transactions. As part of this analysis, FinCEN has separated several typologies that are generally
considered subtypes of fraud, such as account takeover, business email compromise, identity theft,
check kiting, and synthetic identities (see appendix 1).

False Records
The second most frequently reported typology is false records, with approximately 423,000
identity-related BSA reports and $45 billion in suspicious activity.40 Attackers provide false
identification, documentation, payments, and records in interactions with financial institutions.
For example, attackers provide fake Social Security numbers, inconsistent identifying information,
false income and employment documents, false invoices, forged signatures, and counterfeit money
when opening accounts, applying for lines of credit, or conducting transactions. Some financial
institutions successfully identify false records during customer onboarding or during transactions
and deny attackers’ attempts. Others only identify concerns after opening accounts, accepting
funds, or funding loans. Some false records are not discovered until another financial institution or
an additional party, sometimes victims, reviews the activity.

Identity Theft
More than 222,000 identity-related BSA reports documented identity theft. These identity-related
BSA reports have found $36 billion in suspicious activity and describe attackers’ attempts to use
compromised identifying information belonging to a real individual or entity to open accounts and
apply for lines of credit.41 This typology heavily overlaps with false records, as attackers present
false information, documentation, and signatures to carry out identity theft. Financial institutions
often identify the activity after discovering false records, additional fraud, or determining the
victim is deceased, incapacitated, incarcerated, or otherwise unable to apply at the time of
application. In some cases, other financial institutions involved in the lending process discover
identity inconsistencies and report these to the filer, or victims report the fraud themselves.

Third-Party Money Laundering
FinCEN has identified approximately 154,000 identity-related BSA reports reporting $18 billion
in suspected third-party money laundering activity.42 Individuals act as straw buyers and money
mules to conduct transactions and move funds on behalf of others. Straw buyers apply for vehicle



                                                  9
                       F I N A N C I A L       T R E N D     A N A L Y S I S

and mortgage loans on behalf of another person and conceal the identity of the true purchaser.43
Similarly, money mules receive and transfer funds on behalf of others. Money mules are often
recruited online through scams and may be witting or unwitting participants in laundering fraud
proceeds while also concealing the identity of the true transactor, thereby circumventing verification.

Circumventing Standard Processes
FinCEN has identified approximately 110,000 identity-related BSA reports, reporting $12 billion
in suspicious activity, in which filers have reported entities engaged in transactions on behalf of
others that are not applying standard processes, such as proper recordkeeping or registration,
that enable financial institutions to verify customers and counterparties. The majority of these
identity-related BSA reports find that entities not registered with FinCEN appear to receive and
send funds on behalf of others in what appear to be informal value transfer systems or unlicensed
MSB activity, often using peer-to-peer money transfer applications.44 Filers reportedly analyze and
identify these transactions based on the volume, dollar amounts, payment comments, and number
of counterparties, and described the activity as inconsistent with typical usage of the accounts.
Some of these BSA reports may be the result of entities not knowing or understanding acceptable
practices and regulatory requirements while others appeared to be attempts to advance fraud,
cybercrime, or other types of identity-related suspicious activity.

Significant Volume and Value Impact of Identity-Related Exploitations
Attackers most frequently use impersonation tactics to exploit identity processes, followed by
leveraging compromised credentials for unauthorized access during authentication, and finally,
evading detection by circumventing verification (see figure 3)—according to analysis of 2.4 million
identity-related BSA reports.

• 69%, or 1.7 million identity-related BSA reports, report that attackers impersonated businesses,
  charities, financial institutions, government entities, and other individuals to defraud victims
  and financial institutions.

• 18%, or approximately 446,000 identity-related BSA reports, report that attackers used
  compromised credentials to gain unauthorized access or misused their authorized access to
  generate illicit proceeds. Compromises are disproportionally costly as they accounted for 32%
  of the total suspicious activity amount or $112 billion.

• 13%, or approximately 323,000 identity-related BSA reports, report that attackers either exploit
  weak or insufficient verification, or circumvent verification altogether.




                                                  10
                      F I N A N C I A L      T R E N D     A N A L Y S I S

 Figure 3. Exploitations Reported in Identity-Related BSA Reports, January to December 2021

     Identity       Number of BSA         Percent of     Total Suspicious    Percent of Suspicious
   Exploitation         Reports          BSA Reports        Amounts                Amount
Impersonation         1.7 million            69%           $200 billion               57%
Compromise             ~446,000              18%           $112 billion               32%
Circumvention          ~323,000              13%            $39 billion               11%
Total                 2.4 million           100%           $351 billion              100%

Identity-Related BSA Reports Vary by Financial Institution Type
While identity-related suspicious activity impacts all types of financial institutions reporting
under the BSA, depository institutions file the most identity-related BSA reports (see figure
4). Additionally, while most financial institutions report impersonation as their top identity
exploitation, MSBs most often report circumvention of verification (see figure 5). Casinos and card
clubs report an equal amount of impersonation and circumvention of verification exploitations.

                Figure 4. Filing of Identity-Related BSA Reports: Categorized by
                   Financial Institution Type, January to December 202145 46 47

       Financial           Number of        Percent of     Total Suspicious     Percent of
   Institution Type       BSA Reports      BSA Reports         Amounts      Suspicious Amount
Depository Institution     1.3 million         54%            $201 billion         57%
Money Services
                            ~501,000            21%            $31 billion             9%
Business
Other                       ~429,000            18%            $75 billion            21%
Securities/Futures          ~103,000            4%             $33 billion             9%
Loan or Finance
                             ~51,000            2%             $7 billion              2%
Company
Casino/Card Club             ~14,000            1%           $438 million              <1%
Housing GSE                   ~9,000            <1%            $4 billion               1%
Insurance Company             ~3,000            <1%          $761 million              <1%
Total                      2.4 million         100%          $351 billion             100%




                                                11
                      F I N A N C I A L      T R E N D     A N A L Y S I S

                       Figure 5. Reported Identity-Related Exploitations:
              Categorized by Financial Institution Type, January to December 2021

 Financial Institution Type    Impersonation     Compromise       Circumvention         Total
Depository Institution            1 million        ~279,000           ~40,000        1.3 million
Money Services Business           ~190,000          ~46,000          ~265,000         ~501,000
Other                             ~342,000          ~77,000           ~10,000         ~429,000
Securities/Futures                 ~62,000          ~40,000           ~1,000          ~103,000
Loan or Finance Company            ~49,000          ~2,000             ~300            ~51,000
Casino/Card Club                    ~6,500          ~1,000            ~6,500           ~14,000
Housing GSE                         ~8,500           ~100               ~50             ~9,000
Insurance Company                   ~2,000          ~1,000             ~200             ~3,000
Total                            1.7 million       ~446,000          ~323,000        2.4 million

Opportunities for Public-Private Partnership and Application of
Emerging Technologies
In accordance with the AML Act of 2020, FinCEN has engaged with the private and public sectors
to assess opportunities to explore the risks and challenges emerging technologies present to
financial institutions for preventing and detecting identity compromise. This FTA helps establish a
framework to better identify and diagnose where identity processes are failing across the financial
ecosystem, assess the impact of such failings, and inform policy making. FinCEN has collaborated
with other government agencies to share respective approaches and efforts to develop frameworks
and models that may inform best practices. Emerging technologies such as digital identity, AI, and
Privacy-Enhancing Technologies (PET) may help mitigate customer identity process exploitations
and combat a wide variety of illicit finance typologies.48 FinCEN continues to engage with partners
and explore the utility of available and developing identity solutions to enable stronger identity
processes and counter the underlying drivers of identity-related crime.




                                                12
                    F I N A N C I A L      T R E N D     A N A L Y S I S


Appendix 1: Assessed Typology Results
                                                       Primary        Number of      Suspicious
  Typology                  Definition
                                                     Exploitation     BSA reports     Amounts
                 Wrongful or criminal deception
General Fraud    intended to result in financial or   Impersonation    1.2 million   $149 billion
                 personal gain. 49


                 Altering, counterfeiting, or
False Records    forging documentation, records,      Impersonation      ~423,000     $45 billion
                 or forms of payment.
                 Using identifying information
                 unique to the rightful owner
Identity Theft                                         Compromise        ~222,000     $36 billion
                 without the rightful owner’s
                 permission.
                 Laundering of illicit proceeds by
Third-Party
                 a person who was not involved in
Money                                                 Circumvention      ~154,000     $18 billion
                 the commission of the predicate
Laundering
                 offense.50
                 Lack of adherence to standards or
Circumventing
                 acceptable practices, knowingly      Circumvention      ~110,000     $12 billion
Standards
                 or unknowingly.
                 Deliberate compromise of a
Account          victim’s account to remove, steal,
                                                       Compromise         ~80,000      $9 billion
Takeover         procure, or otherwise affect the
                 victim’s funds.51
                 Misuse of authorized access to
Abuse of         data, information, or systems for
                                                       Compromise         ~76,000     $48 billion
Access           financial gain, (e.g. insider abuse,
                 corruption, and embezzlement).52
                 Refusal of requests to follow
Refusal to
                 procedures or provide                Circumvention       ~59,000      $8 billion
Cooperate
                 information.
                 Attempt to compromise or gain
                 unauthorized access to electronic
Cyber Incident                                         Compromise         ~47,000     $11 billion
                 systems, services, resources, or
                 information.53
                 Schemes designed to manipulate
Scam             someone into giving something        Impersonation       ~28,000      $6 billion
                 away, especially money.    54




                                              13
                    F I N A N C I A L       T R E N D     A N A L Y S I S


                                                        Primary       Number of      Suspicious
  Typology                  Definition
                                                      Exploitation    BSA reports     Amounts
                 Schemes where criminals
Business Email
                 compromise the email accounts of     Compromise          ~20,000      $8 billion
Compromise
                 victims.55
                 Knowing submission of an untrue
False Claims     claim of fraud, identity theft, or   Impersonation         ~6,000   $164 million
                 unauthorized transactions.
                 The use of a combination of real
Synthetic
                 and fake PII to fabricate a person   Impersonation         ~3,000   $182 million
Identity
                 or entity.56
                 The fraudulent use of financial
                 instruments, usually checks,
Kiting           between two or more bank             Impersonation         ~2,000   $362 million
                 accounts to cover insufficient
                 funds.57
Total                                                                  2.4 million   $351 billion




                                               14
                           F I N A N C I A L            T R E N D         A N A L Y S I S

Endnotes
1 Congress enacted the Anti-Money Laundering Act as Division F, §§ 6001-6511, of the William M. (Mac) Thornberry
   National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021, Pub. L. 116-283 (2021).
2 The data relied upon in this FTA consists of information filed with FinCEN pursuant to the BSA, herein referred to as
   “BSA data,” and is not a complete representation of all identity-related suspicious activity during the Review Period.
   Trends represented in this report illustrate identification and reporting of identity-related suspicious activity and may
   not reflect the dates actually associated with incidents.
3 This report is not intended to provide additional guidance or establish new requirements for financial institution
   customer identification programs.
4 “Other” is selected by the filer when none of the additional types of financial institutions apply (i.e., depository
   institution, securities/futures, et al). The “Other” filer type may include BSA reports filed by holding companies or
   dealer in precious metals, stones or jewels. For more information, see “SAR Filing by Industry,” Financial Crimes
   Enforcement Network, https://www.fincen.gov/reports/sar-stats/sar-filings-industry.
5 Total figures reported in this FTA may differ from total figures reported elsewhere as FinCEN examined all BSA
   reports filed in 2021 including initial filings and updates to develop this identity framework.
6 FinCEN reviewed 247 checkboxes and identified 135 relevant to this study. FinCEN reviewed 15,996 unique “Other”
   free text fields and identified 2,326 terms describing identity-related suspicious activity that was further sorted into
   238 groups of activity.
7 For more information, see “NIST Special Publication 800-63-4 (Initial Public Draft).” National Institute of Science and
   Technology, NIST SP 800-63-4 ipd (initial public draft), Digital Identity Guidelines.
8 Filers have the ability to select multiple suspicious activities (as applicable) on the reports they submit, and many BSA
   reports reflect more than one type of activity. All options checked in fixed-fields 29(a) through 38(z), within Part II
   (Suspicious Activity Information) of FinCEN Form 111, are individually counted and then aggregated for that type
   of suspicious activity. For example, an institution electronically files two SARs, one citing Check Fraud (31c) as the
   suspicious activity and the other listing Check Fraud (31c) and Identity Theft (35g). These would be tabulated as two
   (2) instances of Check Fraud and one (1) instance of Identity Theft. Moreover, as multiple activities may be reported
   by a filer, the total number of overall suspicious activities is greater than the total number of filings received.
9 FinCEN assessed BSA data filed between 1 January and 31 December 2021 for accuracy, duplication, and false
   positives based on checkboxes, free-text entries, and narrative information provided by filers.
10 For more information, see Appendix 1.
11 For the purposes of this report, FinCEN based these identity process steps on the NIST Special Publication 800-63-4
   ipd Digital Identity Guidelines identity proofing and enrollment process and authentication and lifecycle management
   process.
12 For more information, see “Guidance on Digital Identity,” Financial Action Task Force (FATF), March 2020,
   https://www.fatf-gafi.org/publications/financialinclusionandnpoissues/documents/digital-identity-guidance.html.
13 For more information, see the Social Security Administration’s electronic Consent Based Social Security Number
   Verification Service https://www.ssa.gov/dataexchange/eCBSV/ and “Catalog of Technical Standards for Digital
   Identification Systems,” World Bank Group, September 2018, https://documents.worldbank.org/en/publication/
   documents-reports/documentdetail/707151536126464867/catalog-of-technical-standards-for-digital-identification-
   systems.
14 For the purposes of this report, identity processes may include but are not limited to the processes referenced by the
   Customer Identification Program or CIP. However, the definition of “verification” in this report more closely aligns
   with the NIST definition that distinguishes between verification and validation steps versus the CIP definition of
   “verification.”
15 For more information, see “NIST Special Publication 800-63-4 (Initial Public Draft),” National Institute of Science and
   Technology, NIST SP 800-63-4 ipd (initial public draft), Digital Identity Guidelines.
16 For more information, see “Authentication and Access to Financial Institution Services and Systems,” Federal
   Financial Institutions Examination Council, FFIEC Guidance, 11 August 2021,
   https://www.ffiec.gov/guidance/Authentication-and-Access-to-Financial-Institution-Services-and-Systems.pdf.
17 For more information, see “Guidance on Digital Identity,” Financial Action Task Force (FATF), March 2020,
   https://www.fatf-gafi.org/publications/financialinclusionandnpoissues/documents/digital-identity-guidance.html.
18 For more information, see “Authentication and Access to Financial Institution Services and Systems,” Federal




                                                            15
                            F I N A N C I A L             T R E N D        A N A L Y S I S

     Financial Institutions Examination Council, FFIEC Guidance, 11 August 2021,
     https://www.ffiec.gov/guidance/Authentication-and-Access-to-Financial-Institution-Services-and-Systems.pdf.
19   As noted above, FinCEN mapped the 14 typologies to the relevant identity-related exploitations based on an analysis
     of the underlying activity. For the purpose of this analysis, only the primary identity-related exploitation was used to
     generate results.
20   For more information, see “FinCEN Alert on Nationwide Surge in Mail Theft-Related Check Fraud Schemes Targeting
     the U.S. Mail,” Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, FinCEN Alert #FIN-2023-Alert003, 27 February 2023,
     https://www.fincen.gov/sites/default/files/shared/FinCEN%20Alert%20Mail%20Theft-Related%20Check%20
     Fraud%20FINAL%20508.pdf.
21   Romance scams (also referred to as “online dating,” “confidence,” or “sweetheart” scams) involve attackers creating a
     fictitious profile on an online dating app or website to establish a close or romantic relationship, typically with older
     adults, to exploit their confidence and trust. For more information, see “Advisory on Elder Financial Exploitation,”
     Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, FinCEN Advisory #FIN-2022-A002, 15 June 2022,
     https://www.fincen.gov/sites/default/files/advisory/2022-06-15/FinCEN%20Advisory%20Elder%20Financial%20
     Exploitation%20FINAL%20508.pdf.
22   FinCEN observed attackers impersonating relatives, charities, and other persons-in-need before requesting
     victims send funds immediately to resolve the situation. For more information, see “Advisory on Elder Financial
     Exploitation,” Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, FinCEN Advisory #FIN-2022-A002, 15 June 2022,
     https://www.fincen.gov/sites/default/files/advisory/2022-06-15/FinCEN%20Advisory%20Elder%20Financial%20
     Exploitation%20FINAL%20508.pdf.
23   In tech and customer support scams, attackers impersonated technology companies or other service providers, and
     contacted victims stating they needed access to their computers to provide a refund, and then claimed to “overpay”
     the victim while actually moving the victims’ funds between their own accounts without their knowledge. Attackers
     often demanded that victims repay the difference with either wire transfers or gift cards. For more information,
     see “Advisory on Elder Financial Exploitation,” Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, FinCEN Advisory #FIN-
     2022-A002, 15 June 2022,
     https://www.fincen.gov/sites/default/files/advisory/2022-06-15/FinCEN%20Advisory%20Elder%20Financial%20
     Exploitation%20FINAL%20508.pdf.
24   In employment scams, attackers acted as potential employers and either requested that victims pay a fee before
     starting work or made victims into witting or unwitting money mules to move illicit funds. For more information, see
     “Advisory on Imposter Scams and Money Mule Schemes Related to Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID 19),” Financial
     Crimes Enforcement Network, FinCEN Advisory #FIN-2020-A003, 7 July 2020,
     https://www.fincen.gov/sites/default/files/advisory/2020-07-07/Advisory_%20Imposter_and_Money_Mule_
     COVID_19_508_FINAL.pdf.
25   In financial institution and government imposter scams, attackers impersonated financial institutions or government
     entities and claimed victims needed to provide PII or pay for outstanding balances and legal infractions. For more
     information, see “Advisory on Elder Financial Exploitation,” Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, FinCEN
     Advisory #FIN-2022-A002, 15 June 2022,
     https://www.fincen.gov/sites/default/files/advisory/2022-06-15/FinCEN%20Advisory%20Elder%20Financial%20
     Exploitation%20FINAL%20508.pdf.
26   Money mules are individuals who transfer money on behalf of others. These individuals may be witting or unwitting
     participants in laundering illicit proceeds. Money mules are often recruited online through other scams. For more
     information, see “Advisory on Imposter Scams and Money Mule Schemes Related to Coronavirus Disease 2019
     (COVID 19),” Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, FinCEN Advisory #FIN-2020-A003, 7 July 2020,
     https://www.fincen.gov/sites/default/files/advisory/2020-07-07/Advisory_%20Imposter_and_Money_Mule_
     COVID_19_508_FINAL.pdf.
27   Straw buyers are entities who allow their name, identifiers, and credit rating to be used to secure lines of credit.
     In real estate transactions, the straw buyer generally understands they will neither occupy the property nor make
     payments on the loan. The straw buyer is generally paid a fee by the entity who either intends to flip the property or
     use the loan to launder illicit funds. For more information, see “Suspected Money Laundering in the Residential Real
     Estate Industry,” Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, April 2008,
     https://www.fincen.gov/sites/default/files/shared/MLR_Real_Estate_Industry_SAR_web.pdf.
28   For more information, see “Advisory to Financial Institutions on Cyber-Events and Cyber-Enabled Crime,” Financial
     Crimes Enforcement Network, FinCEN Advisory #FIN-2016-A005, 25 October 2016, https://www.fincen.gov/sites/
     default/files/advisory/2016-10-25/Cyber%20Threats%20Advisory%20-%20FINAL%20508_2.pdf.

                                                             16
